# This has been deprecated and should be replaced with CISv2 event sending instructions

# Publisher event format

Or how to send an identity event that CIS will correctly validate and understand.

## Publisher key and CIS stream access

A publisher key is generated by you using JWKS standard key generation and you send IAM the public key material.
Registering with CIS is a manual step and must be requested to the
[Mozilla IAM](iam@mozilla-community.org) team.

The key (a JWKS private key) is used to decide which additional validation will be performed and
which fields and attributes your publisher is authorized to modify.

A validation plugin must be written for your publisher.

## What to send to the stream

Stream events need to contain three primary keys in order to process properly.  ( _Note that the CIS core library does not currently reflect this_ )

* Publisher used as partition key
* Signatures are per attribute and shall conform to the published specification.
* Profile

__Sample__

``` javascript
event : {
  'profile': {},
  'publisher': {},
  'signature': {}
}
```

* The profile contains the user-profile change.
* Publisher uniquely identifies the publisher.  Example: mozilliansorg
* Signature is a JWKS signature using your publisher key.

## JSON user profile ('user identity')

See [the profiles documentation](/docs/Profiles.md) for details on profiles.

The entire profile must be sent to CIS. It is either created from scratch for
new users, or fetched from an identity provider such as Auth0, then modified
and sent back to CIS in it's entirely.  Any missing field that your publisher
is responsible for will cause a validation error that will reject the complete
change.

### User profile signature

All user profiles submitted to CIS must be signed with your unique and private
publisher key.  Signing can be done using any standard library or with `cis-crypto` provided by Mozilla IAM.
